# Google-Data-Analytics-Capstone-Project-Bellabeat-
Bellabeat Project

## About
<p>My final capstone project for the Google Data Analytics Certification. I tackled a sample set of data from a fictional fitness company and went through all the steps of the data analysis process: ASK, PREPARE, PROCESS, ANALYZE, SHARE, and ACT. I adopted Excel and Jupyter to work with over 5 million rows of data to clean, analyze, and present it comprehensibly.</p>

## Scenario
<p> You are a junior data analyst working on the marketing analyst team at Bellabeat, a high-tech manufacturer of health-focused products for women. Bellabeat is a successful small company, but they have the potential to become a larger player in the global smart device market. Urška Sršen, co-founder and Chief Creative Officer of Bellabeat believes that analyzing smart device fitness data could help unlock new growth opportunities for the company. You have been asked to focus on one of Bellabeat’s products and analyze smart device data to gain insight into how consumers are using their smart devices. The insights you discover will then help guide the marketing strategy for the company. You will present your analysis to the Bellabeat executive team along with your high-level recommendations for Bellabeat’s marketing strategy.</p>

## Ask
<p>First, I need to ask questions to my stakeholders about what they want and why. These questions will help guide my analysis: 
<p>1. What are some trends in smart device usage?</p>
<p>2. How could these trends apply to Bellabeat customers? </p>
<p>3. How could these trends help influence Bellabeat's marketing strategy? </p>

## Prepare
The Next step is for me to gather my data and make it ready for cleaning and analysis.

<p>Data Location</p>
* The Data is stored as a CSV File
* This dataset was generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk
* Data is from the company so it is credible and reliable
* Data is from the same year set
* Data seems uniformly stored

## Process
In this step, It's time to clean the data to get it ready for analysis. With the size of this CSV file, I decided to use Jupyter to clean and analyze the dataset.

<p>Tool</p>
*Jupyter (Python)

<p>Cleaning Process</p>
* Used Python to load CSV file
* I created a subset and selected only the columns I needed to use; id, activity_date, total_steps,	total_distance,	very_active_minutes, fairly_active_minutes, lightly_active_minutes, sedentary_minutes,	calories, day_of_week, n_day_of_week, activity_level
* Take Note of the empty null data, duplicate data





  

